feat: ✨ explain data package vs Data Package in glossary (#374)
seedcase-project/team: glossary.qmd

Author: ```suggestion
## Metadata

```

Use this to refer to the software deliverables which work together to implement
core project functionalities as a single conceptual unit.

## Data

Data can mean any piece of information that someone would like to use to answer
questions. What is considered data (and metadata) is highly dependent on people
and what they intend to do with the information that is collected. For us, data
is any information collected for the purposes of doing analyses on them to
answer questions. An example might be data collected from people participating
in a study on health and disease.

## Data Package (title case) {#data-package-title-case}

When we use the proper name "Data Package" (or more explicitly "Data Package
spec"), we are referring to the [Data Package

> specification](https://datapackage.org). This is a specific specification for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specification](https://datapackage.org). This is a specification for
```

describing a collection of connected data and metadata, documented within the
`datapackage.json` file. When we say "Data Package" (title case), we are using

> it in the context of the specification, not in the context of a general

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it in the context of this specification, not in the context of a general
```

"package" or organisation of data and metadata.

We also don't refer to a folder that contains a `datapackage.json` file as a
"Data Package" as we are *not* referring to the specification in that case.
Instead, we might refer to it as a "data package" (lowercase) as we are
referring to a set of files and folders that contains data and metadata and
happens to use the Data Package specification within the `datapackage.json`
file. See [data package (lowercase)](#data-package-lowercase) below for more on

> that.

Reviewer: Hm, this confuses me a bit, since the Data Package specification defines a folder with `datapackage.json` as being a data package, see the [Structure](https://datapackage.org/standard/data-package/#structure) section of their docs.

Author: Yes, agreed, but you may notice:

> A minimal data package on disk would be a directory containing a single file:

"data package" lowercase 😛

Reviewer: Yeaaaaa, I'm just not sure that they differentiate that in their docs 👀

Author: I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing/an issue. A Python package can technically be anything with either a `setup.py` or a `pyproject.toml` file. So a data package could have something that either has `datapackage.json` or `data-dict.yml` or `DESCRIPTION` (as an R package structure). "data package" lowercase is generic (since there is no "authority" or "owning institution" for creating data packages, unlike R/Python?Rust, etc, so there will be different communities with their own standards).

## data package (lowercase) {#data-package-lowercase}

The term "package" is a general term that has been used in many different
contexts to refer to any bundling of things together to make them easier to
manage, distribute, and (re)use. So appending "data" to "package" is a common
way of referring to any bundling of data and is not unique to "Data Package"
(title case) as defined in the Data Package specification. Unfortunately, this

> can cause some confusion: people could use "data package" (lowercase) to mean a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can cause some confusion: "data package" (lowercase) is sometimes and sometimes not used to mean a
```

> "Data Package" (title case) and it might not be clear from context which one is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Data Package" (title case) and it might not be clear from the context what is
```

being referred to.

> For example, "data package" could refer to a set of data and metadata organised

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, "data package" can refer to a set of data and metadata organised
```

as an [R package](https://rstudio4edu.github.io/rstudio4edu-book/data-pkg.html).
There is even an R package called
[DataPackageR](https://docs.ropensci.org/DataPackageR/index.html) that sets up a
project with an R package structure that you can use to organise data and make
it easier to distribute and reuse. In this case, this is *not* a [Data Package
(title case)](#data-package-title-case) but a "data package" (lowercase).

For us, "data package" (lowercase) is a general term we use to refer to *any*
bundle or collection of data and, importantly, their metadata. A "data package"
(lowercase) may or may not use the Data Package specification.

When we use "data package", we generally use it to directly refer to the bundle
of related data and metadata that we work on, rather than to any formal
specification.

## Data Resource (title case) {#data-resource-title-case}

When we use the formal noun "Data Resource", we are referring to the [Data
Package specification](https://datapackage.org) and how it defines a "data

> resource". A [Data Resource](https://datapackage.org/standard/data-resource/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Package specification](https://datapackage.org) and how it defines a "data
resource" (lowercase, see [our "data resource" entry](#data-resource-lowercase)). A [Data Resource](https://datapackage.org/standard/data-resource/)
```

or if you mean lowercase, maybe link to that section here when it occurs for the first time in this section.

(title case) is a specific entity within the Data Package spec that has a
defined structure and properties that are described in the `resources` section
of the `datapackage.json` file. When we use "Data Resource" (title case), we are
using it in the context of the specification, not in the context of a general
resource of data. However, we tend to avoid using the formal noun "Data
Resource" (title case) as it tends to be clearer to say "Data Package" or "Data
Package spec". See our use of ["data resource"
(lowercase)](#data-resource-lowercase) for an explanation of that term.

## data resource (lowercase) {#data-resource-lowercase}

> The term "data resource" is a much less commonly used word and can mean many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The term "data resource" is not a commonly used word and can mean many
```
Otherwise I think "less than *what*"? Given that glossary entries are not always read in order, that phrasing could be a bit confusing.

different things to different groups of people. It could mean a resource of
data, like a library is a resource for books or like the IT department is a
resource for IT support within an organization. It could also mean a resource,

> like wood or steel, that is used to make something else with.

Reviewer: Not sure of this point with the wood and steel; maybe add a sentence on what that would look like for a *data* resource?

> like wood or steel, that is used to make something else with.

Author: ```suggestion
resource for IT support within an organization. It could also mean a resource,
like wood is when making a chair, that is used to make something else with.
```

> For us, "data resource" (lowercase) is a general term we use to refer to *any*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For us, "data resource" (lowercase) or simply "resource" is a general term we use to refer to *any*
```
Since it's referred to as "resource" in the next sentence.

single set of related data (but not a bundle of data and metadata) that may or
may not have been cleaned and tidied. A resource does not need to have metadata
attached to it. It could be a single file or a set of files that all contain the
same type of data.

For example, data collected from several people using continuous glucose
monitors, which is what people with type 1 diabetes use, would be a data
resource. Even though this data might be across several files, one for each
person and likely for each day the monitor was used, it is still the same type

> of data, so is considered a resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of data, so is considered one collected resource.
```

We avoid the term "data resource" (lowercase) as it isn't a clearly defined term
and because other terms exist that are widely used and more precise. For

> example, a data file or dataset is a more precise term to refer to a single file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example, a "data file" or "dataset" is a more precise term to refer to a single file
```

Use this to refer to the software deliverables which work together to implement
core project functionalities as a single conceptual unit.

> ## Data Package (uppercase) {#data-package-uppercase}

Reviewer 2: Nitpicky comment, but isn't this title case rather than uppercase (= all caps)?

Author: Gooooodddd point!

> When we use the formal noun "Data Package" (or more explicitly "Data Package

Reviewer 2: Maybe "proper name" / "noun" or "formal name"?

spec"), we are referring to the [Data Package
specification](https://datapackage.org). This is a specific specification for
describing a collection of connected data and metadata, described within the
`datapackage.json` file. When we say "Data Package" (uppercase), we are using it
in the context of the specification, not in the context of a general "package"
or organisation of data and metadata.

We also don't refer to a folder that contains a `datapackage.json` file as a
"Data Package" as we are *not* referring to the specification in that case.

> Instead, we might refer to it as a "data package" (lowercase) as it is referring

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, we might refer to it as a "data package" (lowercase) as we are referring
```
Or: as it is a set of...

> to the set of files and folders that contain data and metadata, that happens to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to a set of files and folders that contains data and metadata and happens to
```

use the Data Package specification within the `datapackage.json` file. See [data
package (lowercase)](#data-package-lowercase) below for more on that.

## Data Resource (uppercase) {#data-resource-uppercase}

When we use the formal noun "Data Resource", we are referring to the [Data

> Package specification](https://datapackage.org) and how they define a "data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Package specification](https://datapackage.org) and how it defines a "data
```

resource". A [Data Resource](https://datapackage.org/standard/data-resource/)
(uppercase) is a specific entity within the Data Package spec that has a defined
structure and properties that are described in the `resources` section of the
`datapackage.json` file. When we use "Data Resource" (uppercase), we are using
it in the context of the specification, not in the context of a general resource
of data. However, we tend to avoid using the formal noun "Data Resource"
(uppercase) as it tends to be clearer to say "Data Package" or "Data Package
spec". See our use of ["data resource" (lowercase)](#data-resource-lowercase)
for an explanation of that term.

## data package (lowercase) {#data-package-lowercase}

The term "package" is a general term that has been used in many different

> contexts to refer to any bundling of things together to make it easier to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
contexts to refer to any bundling of things together to make them easier to
```

manage, distribute, and (re)use. So appending "data" to "package" is a common
way of referring to any bundling of data and is not unique to "Data Package"
(uppercase) as defined in the Data Package specification. Unfortunately, this

> can cause some confusion people could use "data package" (lowercase) to mean a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can cause some confusion: people could use "data package" (lowercase) to mean a
```

bundle or collection of data and, importantly, their metadata. A "data package"
(lowercase) may or may not use the Data Package specification.

When we use "data package", we generally use it to directly refer to the bundle
of related data and metadata that we work on, rather than to any formal
specification.

## data resource (lowercase) {#data-resource-lowercase}

The term "data resource" is a much less commonly used word and can mean many
different things to different groups of people. It could mean a resource of
data, like a library is a resource for books or like the IT department is a
resource for IT support within an organization.

For us, "data resource" (lowercase) is a general term we use to refer to *any*
single set of related data (but not a bundle of data and metadata). A resource
does not need to have metadata attached to it. It could be a single file or a
set of files that all contain the same type of data.

For example, data collected from several people using continuous glucose
monitors, which is what people with type 1 diabetes use. This data would be
several files, one for each person (and potentially for each day the monitor was
used).

> We avoid the term "data resource" (lowercase) as it isn't a clearly term and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We avoid the term "data resource" (lowercase) as it isn't a clearly defined term and
```

like wood or steel, that is used to make something else with.

For us, "data resource" (lowercase) is a general term we use to refer to *any*
single set of related data (but not a bundle of data and metadata) that may or
may not have been cleaned and tidied. A resource does not need to have metadata
attached to it. It could be a single file or a set of files that all contain the
same type of data.

For example, data collected from several people using continuous glucose
monitors, which is what people with type 1 diabetes use, would be a data
resource. Even though this data might be across several files, one for each
person and likely for each day the monitor was used, it is still the same type
of data, so is considered a resource.

We avoid the term "data resource" (lowercase) as it isn't a clearly defined term
and because other terms exist that are widely used and more precise. For
example, a data file or dataset is a more precise term to refer to a single file
or set of files that contain data.

<!-- TODO: Do we want to use another term? Like asset? (which is something that has inherent value to a particular group and purpose) -->

## Metadata (or properties)

> <!-- TODO: Should we just standardize on metadata? -->

Reviewer 2: 👍
